[Music]
penguins looking for a partner set
themselves apart who start to display
[Music]
this male doesn't have to wait for long
[Laughter]
[Music]
he's unlucky this time
but he spoiled for choice there are 3000
possible partners
[Music]
a waddle walk shoes she's kini they
mirror each other's actions to confirm
that they're never couple but they're
blossoming romance soon sparks
jealousies a second female tries to
muscle in
[Music]
she packs at her rival but the meals
having none of it
the girls fight it out it's flowers at
dawn she shops her challenger to the
ground but it's not over yet a meet
cheers her own this time she's clinched
it she slapped our way to victory the
bereaved couples are desperate they look
for another chick to care for and they
don't mind if it's someone else's they
plan a kidnap the mother's defense is to
sit tight and stop our chick being
stolen
but the kidnappers won't be put off
easily just in time our partner returns
spruced up from the shower he takes on
the weepy kidnappers the fight gets even
more heated but there are few tougher
than a la compra
they can take the punishment as well as
dish it out the baby Snatchers have had
enough and the meal returns to his meal
he might need another shower but at
least his chick is safe
kidnapping is also rife in the Emperor
colony the newly walking chicks are
irresistible to females that have lost
their own chicks or fields to breed the
mother tries to repel the kidnappers
with a few well-aimed pecks but they
won't give up
[Music]
and others are the same idea
the chick heads for the main colony
hoping to find protection among the
crowds
[Music]
she disappears in a mass of bodies and
reappears
[Music]
but it's only for a moment a large crowd
has gathered all trying to adopt the
chip she soon overwhelmed by dueting
admirers
[Music]
one child snatcher tries to force the
chicke into her pouch but she's way too
big
she makes a break for it then gives them
the runaround through the colony
[Music]
finally a half our surrounding they're
all desperate to mother
[Music]
she's in danger of being smothered with
love
but the flop ball is accidentally
flipped away and caught by her mother
[Music]
she'll stay closer to her next time the
hardest part of becoming independent is
leaving whom the emperor penguin chicks
are about to take the biggest step in
their young lives left alone by their
once doting parents they must leave
their icy birthplace and make their way
to the sea every test they face pulling
skills they'll need later in life but
one challenge stops them in our tracks a
giant petrel they try to flee me but
running isn't an emperor strongpoint a
slip is all the petrel needs
[Music]
the chick is grabbed by his neck
feathers but the diamond just falls away
they form a defensive circle and prepare
to stand their ground
despite their check light appearance
they are close to a meter tall quite a
size even for a giant petrel the chick
towers toufool height protecting those
behind his defiance by his time it's a
standoff then as if from nowhere and
Adelie the feistiest penguin in the
world he fearlessly puts himself between
the chicks and the petrol even petrels
don't mess with the delis
the plucky rescuer accompanies the
chicks to the sea emperor cam is there
to see them on their way but entering
the water is a daunting prospect having
an adult around must be reassuring even
if it is a spy
the Adelie seems to be waiting for
something to another penguin cam is also
ready to see them go instead other
penguins start to arrive
[Music]
Mora Daly's the rescuer was just a
front-runner
[Music]
it's his turn to feed so if he leaves
her to look after their eggs
now she must tackle a problem faced by
no other kind of penguin for the next 10
days she must protect her eggs from the
African Sun
against coat of feathers that keeps her
warm in cold seas now stifles huh on
these exposed rocks sheemish aid her
eggs instead of keeping them warm
everything here seems the wrong way
around for some the soaring temperature
is too much
[Music]
a neighbor deserts his nest his egg will
not survive
[Music]
he's not the only one to give up some
years not a single chick is reared
[Music]
penguins are adapted to withstand
temperatures of 40 degrees below zero
not 40 degrees above
[Music]
now at the hottest part of the day the
very worst time her chicks are hatching
[Music]
just when they need her most she's
reaching the limit of her endurance
after ten days of intensive fishing the
chicks father comes back to take his
turn at the nest but will he be too late
[Music]
he greets his young for the very first
time
[Music]
incredible in spite of the Bingham
confusion returning birds are able to
find their nest and partners without any
difficulty and the reunion is always
marked with a jubilant display
the parents will now swap tutors the one
just arrived will feed the chicks and
garden while the other having fasted for
a couple of days will go down to the sea
to feed and collect more food for the
young
[Laughter]
there is that a nesting on the lower
slopes are lucky others have to climb so
high that their nests are up in the
clouds for much of the time
[Applause]
the trick down from the nest can take
another heart but it has to be done if
the chick is to be fair
[Music]
when at lasts they reached the sea their
journey that so far has been merely
arduous becomes very dangerous indeed
[Music]
a leopard seal
a single leopard seal may catch up to
six penguins an hour during the season
it will kill hundreds
[Music]
a wounded bird having escaped almost
miraculously from the seal must now face
the merciless skewers
[Music]
in spite of its injury it still
struggles upwards towards its nest
[Music]
[Applause]